---
title: "That path thang"
date: 2023-01-12
draft: false
cover: "/img/me_willamette_valley.jpeg"
coverAlt: "eee"
coverCaption: "ddd"
description: "So here we are recovering from our alcoholism, most of us in the first flush of sobriety are usually shocked at some point by the amount of wreckage..."
---

>So here we are recovering from our alcoholism, most of us in the first flush of sobriety are usually shocked at some point by the amount of wreckage that we have left in our wake. We see the need and feel the urgency to repair… well, everything.
>
>The focus in early recovery is usually inwardly directed … ie. You work the steps, there are 12 of them, they are meant to be done in order as each step builds on the foundation of the previous step. A summation of the first three steps often heard in the rooms is “I can’t, he/she (God/Goddess) can, therefore I’ll let them.” But like most of us, regardless of our willingness to work the steps, we are immediately confronted by either a lack of faith or a lack of ability to believe, this is why the Big Book has a chapter called “We Agnostics” it addresses some of the struggle in coming to terms with God/Goddess as we understand them. Read that chapter. There is however something else that over the years I’ve experienced and have heard in the rooms either directly said or inferred, nothing of what I’m about to say is original. Most is the recollection of #shitmysponsorsays… or from my old Sunday home group. 
>
>With the exception of a few instances, most of us have burned quite a few bridges in pursuit of our drug of choice. We carry the hurt, pain, discomfort and embarrassment that we participated in s-o-o-o-o-o many situations that got s-o-o-o-o-o out of control. We are encouraged as we progress towards step four to review our past situations and to take responsibility, to not blame anyone but ourselves and take stock or where we had wrong those in our life. These are the first steps in taking that inward journey and relating outward toward others. Not to mention repairing our lives. Fairly quickly, however we are entangled in a fair amount of confusion. “Do, I really have to put out of mind the trauma/abuse I suffered at the hands of another?” Addiction is great in that it always seems to supply the addict with an endless supply of abusers who were equally as messed up as the addict themselves. The fact of the matter is that we abused others as much as we were abused. However, this can become a huge stumbling block for the newly recovered. 
>
>Our addiction did not happen in a vacuum. In looking at my own life, there was enough trauma I brought to that first drink, first drug. I can only speak for myself, but in those early days, using was an immediate release from all of what had been burdening me, which was a shit load of hurt, anger, grief, resentment and isolation. Not to mention I had an instant group of friends and social acceptance which I craved desperately. This pretty much runs true for everyone in recovery that I’ve ever met. 
>
>What also runs true is when we look back before that first drink, first drug, we had been on a path towards that event for sometime. But the question as to “Why ?” is not so easily answered, or answered in so many various ways as there are individuals in recovery. Each of us has a story, unique and individual but common in their features. But the “Why?” of it eludes us, masked in a million different stories. But everyone of these stories has the common feature of the familiar (as in family) dysfunction. Sometimes extreme, sometimes not. But enough so that for whatever reason it sets one on a path in life to search for outward solutions, or at the very least comfort from the dysfunction of the family system. This path while common to every addict is not common in how it expresses itself. Thus the “Why?” of the addict eludes us. Simply put this path indicates a longing for a much larger experience of truth than what we had experienced in our families of origin.
>
>Fractured in thousand different ways, we search for meaning because otherwise we would’ve fallen into the abyss a long time ago. I suspect that path has always been about us seeking the spiritual. Seeking the larger truths. Seeking something more powerful than ourselves. Seeking something or someone to protect us. The very act of drinking or drugging an extension of the need for that larger experience. In this seeking we experience the seeming unending dissonance of whatever religious convictions our family of origin held. For myself my recovery from alcoholism and addiction required also that my religious beliefs had to come into recovery with me. That the only way for me to have a belief “in a god of my understanding” meant recognizing first that the dysfunctional god I had appointed and reacted to through out my addiction had been largely informed by the very people who had in some instances abused me or at the very least sought to use god/religion as some way in which to make me conform. The dissonance was amplified by my fathers death at an early age, that both fueled and frightened me. God could be merciless and unjust if one believed that God was truly in control of everything. So, in truth anger fueled my relationship with God and my mistrust of God grew. It was this path that brought me to recovery, it was this path that has kept me there. But as I would self identify in my early days, I was also recovering from Irish Catholicism and family dysfunction.
>
>So, this path, this seeking, means that even in my active addiction, I was actively searching for larger truths. I try to remember this when a comment goes to long, seems disjointed. They’re simply voicing their path.
>
>That’s all for now. 
>
>\- Love and rockets